Configuration
    Players
    World
Gameplay
    Country
    Buildings
        Building Procedure
        Commercial
        Spawners
        Fortifications
        Capital
    Entities
        Spawning Procedure
        Movement Procedure
            Merging Scenario
            Militation Scenario
        Extraction Procedure
    Victory
View
    Shifting
    Zooming
    Resetting

Players Configuration

In "The Global Empire", there can be up to eight players. They can be human players and bots. There must be at least one human player. There must be at least two players in total.
Later, the User can come back to this view.

Number of Players
In the players configuration view, the User can choose how many human players and bots there will be. On selecting the number of players of one kind by clicking appropriate circle button, the last buttons in the other kind will be disabled, because it is impossible to declare more players than the limit is.

Parameters of Players
For every declared player, their color can be chosen. Option "Random" can also be selected. Every color is unique: once a player is assigned certain color, no one else can have that color (it is dropped from other lists).
Human players can introduce their names. They do not have to be unique (but it is advised). Inputting an empty name results in the player being named "Anonymous the Conqueror".


World Configuration

After players configuration, the User is to parameterize the world. They can choose: how big, marine and mountainous the world will be. The parameters are selected with sliders.
From this view, the User can come back to players configuration view. After clicking "Play", the gameplay begins and one cannot come back to configuration.

World Size
The world is a hexagon comprising hexagonal fields. The world size is defined by the side of the map. The value ranges from 15 to 30. Four values are named: small (15), medium (20), big (25) and large (30). Medium is the default value.

Sea Share
With the next slider, the User decides how much of the world surface will be sea. The value ranges from 20% to 60%. Three values are named: lakes (20%), seas (40%) and oceans (60%). Seas is the default value.

Mountains Share
The last slider serves defining how much of the land surface will be mountains. The value ranges from 10% to 40%. Three values are named: few (10%), medium (25%) and many (40%). Medium is the default value.


Country

Every player owns a country. A country consists at least of the player's capital. Initially, the land fields adjacent to the capital belong to the country, too. The owner can conquer new territories, construct buildings within the country and spawn entities that can be later moved. The country is destroyed when the capital is conquered. Then, the fields become nobody's and the entities perish.

Buildings

The User can purchase buildings to develop their country. There are commercial buildings, spawners and fortifications. The price for a building increases with the number of the buildings of that type the player already possesses.

Building Procedure
To buy and construct a new building, the player left-clicks appropriate button in the shop. If they have no place or money for the building, a message is shown. Otherwise, the player is shown a confirmation window with the price. After clicking "Confirm", the fields are lit where the building can be placed. After clicking one of these fields, the building is placed there. In case of clicking somewhere else, the procedure is canceled.
To see information window about a building, the button can be right-clicked.

Commercial Buildings
The commercial buildings bring income after every round. There are four types in this category:
	- town,
	- village,
	- farmfield,
	- mine.
They differ in requirements for fields where they can be built, the income they produce and the price.

TYPE      | INCOME | PRICE*    | REQUIREMENTS
town      | 150    | 500 + 50n | plains field
village   |  25    | 150 + 15n | plains field
farmfield |  50    | 100 + 10n | plains field next to a village
mine      | 100    | 250 + 25n | mountains field
*The price is given with parameter n - the number of buildings of that kind the player already has in their country. E.g. when you are building the first town (n = 0), it costs 500 Ħ, the second (n = 1) - 550 Ħ, the third (n = 2) - 600 Ħ etc.

Spawners
To spawn a new entity, you need a spawner. There are two kinds of spawners: barracks and shipyard. In barracks, the land entities can be spawned: infantry and cavalry. In a shipyard, navy can be spawned. In the round it was spawned, the entity cannot be moved.

TYPE     | PRICE*     | REQUIREMENTS
Barracks | 250 + 25n  | plains field
Shipyard | 700 + 100n | plains field next to a sea
*The price is given with parameter n - the number of buildings of that kind the player already has in their country.

Fortifications
In the current version of the game, there is only one fortification field: the fortress. It gives 100 additional, field-fixed defense points that play a role in militation (see: Actions/Movement Procedure/Militation Scenario).

A fotress costs 750 Ħ, every next one costs 50 Ħ more. It can be build on a land field (plains or mountains).

Capital

The capital is technically not considered a 'building' because it cannot be built; it is single for all the lifetime of a player's country. However, it has the features of:
- commercial field: it brings 200 Ħ every round,
- spawner: infantry and cavalry can be spawned there AND they can be moved immediately after spawning,
- fortification: it has 200 defense points.


Entities

To conquer new territories and fight the others, the player can spawn entities. There are three types of entities:
- infantry,
- cavalry,
- navy.

Spawning Procedure
To spawn an entity, the User left-clicks appropriate button. In case the player has too little money to buy even a single soldier, a message is shown. Otherwise, a window is shown and the User can select how many soldiers they want to buy and how much it will cost.
There are different prices for the entities. An entity is actually thought of as a troop of soldiers. Their number ranges from 1 to 100. The price depends on the number of soldiers, as shown below.

TYPE     | PRICE*   
infantry | 20n      
cavalry  | 25n      
navy     | 130 + 20n

Movement Procedure
To move an entity, one needs to left-click it. If the entity can move, the movement range is lit. When the User clicks one of them, the entity is moved there.
The entities differ in the way they move, as shown in the table below.

TYPE     | MOVEMENT
infantry | up to 2 continental fields
cavalry  | up to 4 plains fields, up to 1 mountains field
navy     | up to 4 sea fields

An entity cannot go through a field that is occupied by another one. In some cases, however, it is possible to go onto that field (and end the move there).

An entity can move at most once a round.

Land entities conquer the fields they pass through AND the neighboring plains fields. Thus, cavalry is good for conquering vast plains territories.

Merge Scenario
Two troops belonging to the same player can be joined. This can simply be done by moving an entity to a field where a fellow troop stays.
Merging can happen only in the following cases:
Only these merges can happen:
- infantry joins infantry,
- cavalry joins cavalry,
- infantry embarks navy.
The resulting troop cannot have a number greater than maximal. The surplus soldiers will remain on the original field, none will disappear.

Militation Scenario
Apart from number, the entities are characterized by morale. It is a value that raises or drops when a nearby fellow wins or loses, respectively.
If an entity encounters another player's entity or fortification, a battle happens. The force of the attacker is number + morale, the defender's is number + morale + fortification's fortitude. The attacker wins if and only if they are stronger. The loser perishes, but the winner is damaged by as many points as the loser's force. The damage is split among the number, morale (and fortitude) proportionally.

Extraction Procedure
A troop can be extracted from an entity. To do this, the User right-clicks the entity. A window appears for the User to select how many soldiers they want to extract. Then, the original entity is replaced with the extracted one, which is normally moved. After that, the remaining original troop is placed back.
If the movement is canceled by clicking outside of the lit range, the extraction is reverted.
Extraction is impossible if the entity comprises 1 soldier, if the entity cannot move (it has already been moved or it has just been spawned in a spawner), or if the extracted entity would have no range of movement.


Victory

The goal is to remain the last country alive. If the human player wins, an information of their victory is shown. If the last human player loses with only bots remaining, the game is continued and an information is shown that AI took over the world.


View

Shifting
The world can be moved by means of WSAD keys or arrows. By default, it is the camera that is moved over the world (W = the User flied northwards). To move the world (W = the world is moved northwards), use Ctrl+M.
By default, at the beginning of a human player's move, the world is moved so that the center of the world be in the center of the world panel. To disable this, use Ctrl+C.

Zooming
Keys QE and numpad PageUp/PageDown serve zooming out and in.

Resetting
If a key is pressed, and a dialog window is opened before the key was released, the game does not 'see' it should stop shifting or zooming the world. In such case, retype the key or simply press space.